# What are *The Federalist Papers*?
*The Federalist Papers* are a collection of articles and essays written by Alexander Hamilton, James Madison, and John Jay, published between 1787 and 1788. The Papers advocated for the ratification of the Constitution. The Papers and the ideas therein contributed to the establishment of Federalism as a cohesive political movement, supporting a strong central government, a "vigorous Executive" (Federalist 70), an unassailable separation of powers, and the establishment of a merchant republic; all these ideas were central to *The Federalist Papers*, but were still among a sea of others expounded thereby. 
# Why are *The Federalist Papers* important?
In modern jurisprudence, *The Federalist Papers* are often cited as a paragon of textualism. Discussing the Papers in an opening statement to Congress in 2011, late Justice Antonin Scalia says, "Here's a document that says what the Framers thought of [the Constitution] thought they were doing. [The Papers are] such a profound exposition of political science that [they are] studied in political courses in Europe." George Washington, despite his propensity for non-partisanship, was nonetheless sympathetic to the Federalist cause and often cited with Hamilton and Madison in disputes with Jefferson, the founder of the Federalist's main opposition, the Democratic-Republicans. Many of our nation's foundational ideals --- of course, largely taken from the views of 18th and 17th century philosophers like Locke and Rousseau --- including checks and balances, a bicameral legislature, with no dearth of others today instrumental in the maintenance of our republic, found their justification and defense in the Papers. The Papers are not only a historical document but also a flourishing, vigorous defense against opponents of the Constitution. Many today do not realize how instrumental the founding documents of our republic were in the founding and maintenance thereof. Without *The Federalist Papers*, it is likely that the Constitution may never have been ratified; if that were to have occurred, the United States as we know it may never have been formed. Similarly, without the Declaration of Independence, Abraham Lincoln would have had no basis off of which to form his thesis of equality. Without the Bill of Rights, there would be no guarantee of the right to freedom of speech. Without the 3rd Amendment thereof, there would be no guarantee of the right to counsel. Our nation is the child of the Framers, whose infinite wisdom and similarly infinite lack of foresight led to the political system, and indeed, the philosophy that we inhabit in the present. *The Federalist Papers*, the Constitution they defended, and the Declaration of Independence that preceded both of them are some of the most important documents in understanding our Republic; without them, the United States not only in reality but also in ideal would be listless, without base political or philosophical. Therefore, *The Federalist Papers* are important.
# What are the most important ideas of *The Federalist Papers*?
Some of the most important ideas that are expressed in the Papers include:
- Means of preventing tyranny of the majority (Federalist 10).
- Extension of the United States beyond the borders of the Ancient Greek republics (Federalist 14).
- The very concept of Federalism (Federalist 39).
- Checks and balances and arguments supporting them (Federalist 51).
- The one-man executive (the President) (Federalist 70).
- Innumerable others (judicial review, bicameral legislature, separation of powers, etc.)
# What are the most important of *The Federalist Papers*?
Some of the most important of the Papers include:
- Federalist No. 10 - The Same Subject Continued: The Union as a Safeguard Against Domestic Faction and Insurrection
- Federalist No. 78 - The Judiciary Department
- Federalist No. 32 - The Same Subject Continued: Concerning the General Power of Taxation
	- "Perhaps the most famous citation to Federalist No. 32 is the first --- Chief Justice Marshall, in *M'Culloch v. Maryland*, rejects Maryland's reliance on Federalist No. 32 as authority for the state's power to tax the notes of the Bank of the United States" (Lupu, 1998).
- Federalist No. 51 - The Structure of the Government Must Furnish the Proper Checks and Balances Between the Different Departments
- Federalist No. 81 - The Judiciary Continued, and the Distribution of the Judicial Authority
- Federalist No. 78 - The Judiciary Department
- Federalist No. 42 - The Powers Conferred by the Constitution Further Considered